this lessons go be about the bootstrap nav bar,
and almost every website is gonna need a navigation bar typically within.
The header helps with the navigation branding and providing users some way to go through
the website and see all of the content.
There's a number of options,
and this is going to function very similar to what we saw with now.
But it's got a few more options as the knave bar,
because this is typical use for the knave bars to sit at the top.
So there's ways to position it and you also might have some more options,
such as the forms and the inputs.
And all of this,
of course,
is available just via the classes.
The color schemes are also another option that we have when it comes to the now bar,
and this is also something.
This is also something that we've seen before,
where we can set the background colors.
But in this case we have a specific class for the knave bar,
dark or in the knob or light,
and this will indicate how the text is handled and depending on what your background is.
So you set the background to whatever you want.
You can also style a background to any specific color,
and then you use the nav bar lighter than AP art.
Dark in orderto handle the colors of the text on top,
so it's a really nice effect.
There's also the different ways to expand,
so the different breaking points on LG and so on.
So where it's going to break when you're shrinking your page down.
So,
typically,
usually I use the M D.
But of course you can use other ones as needed,
the different breaking points.
So there's S M M,
D L G Excel,
and that's where when the pair persons shrinking the page down where it's gonna break,
there's the default one.
So this is just the regular default nav bar with the light in the background color.
It's a simple is that to have a navigation bar,
but you,
if you want it fixed to the top,
you can also apply.
Fix top class.
You can fix it to the bottom.
Some websites have it at the bottom as well.
And then there's sticky top.
So this is an interesting one,
and this one isn't always available across all the browsers so if you are to use that,
make sure that you do check it.
And this is an interesting one,
because once it hits where you've indicated the navigation bar,
it's going to stick to the top.
So if you keep it at the top of your HTML code is going to stick to the top of the HTML
cord as you navigate down.
If you have it in the middle of your HTML code,
only when you hit that part it's going to stick to the top and I'll show you what I mean,
as we go through this lesson,
let's open up that editor and we already have the knave from before,
and we can start fresh with a new navigation bar or we can just create a brand new one.
We can update the content contained within it,
so I'm gonna do a little bit of both.
We're going to create a brand new knave class and give it now bar as the class,
and I'm gonna set the now far too light.
And then the background can also be late.
That's our navigation bar,
and of course you're gonna have some items within the navigation bar so I can copy those
over.
And I'm going to get rid of some of this the Navajo item and the knave Lincare going to
come back because that's gonna be used within the Nath bar as well.
But for now,
we're going to remove them,
so we have a clean sleep.
But just keep in mind that we could easily transform the knave into the nav bar and then we
still have the same content down there.
I'm gonna get rid of that and we don't aren't putting it within the main container.
You can also put it in the main container.
You could have fluid container.
It depends on how you want your navigation bar handled.
So we did say we want to do a transformation and really it's similar,
but we're using nav bar a lot of the times.
So just to avoid the confusion,
we're gonna place the content in and we still need the list items for the content.
So we'll drop in a few more hyperlinks and then as we add the styling,
this is gonna take it shape and it's gonna look more like a navigation bar.
And then,
of course,
we also still have those options where we could go fixed top.
And for this I'm gonna add a custom style to this of height 2000 picks.
So this will allow us to scroll down so you can see that it sticks to the top.
And although it doesn't look like a navigation bar,
you can upload.
We supply those classes to any element and it will still take the stack.
You can do fixed bottom as well.
So if you want it sitting at the bottom of the page eso Even as I scroll,
you can see my school bar slightly here.
The side and we fixed the bottom.
We fix the top and so on.
And then there's also the sticky top,
and that one will look at a little bit more detail at the end of this lesson.
So let's create our navigation bar,
and we've got now far we've got some colors to it.
And maybe you want to do background primary,
and I'm gonna update now bar to be dark so that we can see the content.
Teoh,
put it back up to the top.
So let's take care of our own ordered list where we've got the content and updates now far
enough.
So as soon as we apply that,
that takes care of quite a bit of the styling,
and we still have it as typical hyperlinks.
That's why we can't see the content quite yet.
Eso if we update this to have item And this is where we've seen the knave items before,
where we saw it in the last lesson where they're referred to as now items.
And this is the same thing for the navigation more and these are also have links still,
So there is a lot of consistency in these classes because,
really,
the nav bar is just only slightly different than the regular now.
And I'm gonna update this to be late and copy the structure of the list items over so still
doesn't look much like a navigation bar.
And that's because we want to make this to be toggle.
And we wanna wrap all of the content that we want to collapse in a parent class and this is
naff bar collapse.
And this is where the collapsible content is gonna go.
So anything within here is part of the collapse.
And so we do need to add a few different attributes where we've got the knave bar and let's
added now,
bar expand and we're wanna have the break point.
So you have a MD so that automatically aligns it horizontally.
So it is starting to look more like a navigation bar,
and this is now four collapse,
and it's also got underclass of collapse.
And you also need tohave an I d or some way to identify this element.
So I'm just gonna call it now one,
as this is how we're gonna identify what were collapsing.
So let's see what happens when we collapse it and it disappears because we haven't added in
our collapse button yet.
Eso we do need to have a button that's gonna show up when the collapse happens.
So button.
And this has a class of naff bar toddler and give it a type of button and the data toddler
data toggle is going to be collapsed,
and we also,
most importantly,
need that data target.
So the target is always important because this is going to indicate what we want to
collapse.
So just add in the hash for the I.
D.
S and identify the element that's gonna be doing the collapse.
And for now,
just keeping X in there so it see what happens.
So we collapse it.
I click it.
There's our navigation menu again.
So it's collapsible and bootstrap already has a default class in order to have the Tata
Glor icon.
So you could just create an empty elements and provide a class of nav bar toddler I climbed
.
It's a rather long one,
but it will provide that toddler icons so that you typically see you can also collapse it
at different points.
So if I want to collapse it on sm,
that's gonna collapse it on a smaller screen.
If I wanted it collapsed on the larger screen.
So there,
right away it's already collapsed.
And I'm gonna actually change this to nab our dark.
And I'm gonna like thes two home about and contact.
So these could be sections on one page and add that into the main container.
So given an I D.
Of home,
then I'll just use the display four to output the word home.
So we have a title there and then paragraph,
and I'm also gonna apply a style height of 1000 picks and then we'll duplicate thes
sections for the other.
So we had a boat and we'll update the text.
Contained within is well,
and I'm also gonna just I'll update this toe empty so it's not collapsed,
so we click.
One would click to would Click three.
So it's bringing us to the pages and also notices,
well,
that it's slightly off.
And whenever we've got the fixed top,
there's always going to be some spacing issues.
There s O in orderto handle that we can add in a class into the section.
Cause was will use bootstrap to apply some additional styling.
And if you do padding top Dash five,
that will provide the perfect amount of padding for the section to be just below the
navigation bar.
And I'm gonna add that in all three of them and save.
So now when I click home,
I get to the home boat contact,
and it's automatically scrolling itself down and the reason the contact is still down is
that the height of it?
If the height of it was 1500 then the contact would be all the way up because it's where
the scroll bar ends and that's why it was sticking up a little bit there.
So also,
if we want to add in another naff bar and let's say within the home section,
we've got another now bar and this is gonna be class of nav bar and this is this one will
make sticky for the naff bar just to show you how the sticky works and sticky top and we'll
set a background color of danger.
And there's also branding class that you can add in for your navigation bar.
So just put sticky content there.
So refresh the navigation bar,
the sticky content.
And we also have to move this one because the stickies actually going to go underneath the
fixed top because that one's on top.
So now when we scroll down and we get to the sticky content,
watch out stays at the top.
And as I continue scrolling once that entire section is gone,
it's going to disappear,
and it's back whenever we're scrolling back to it.
So it's how sticky works,
and it will go underneath the main Nath bar if you have a fixed to the tops.
That's why we're not able to see it once fixed to the top.
That's if you want to use this sticky and also keep in mind once again that not all
browsers,
they're going to support it.